Add docs for Image Optimization (#18107)
vercel/next.js: docs/basic-features/image-optimization.md

---

> description: Next.js supports built-in image optimization as well as 3rd party loaders for Imgix, Cloudinary, and more! Learn more here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Next.js supports built-in image optimization, as well as third party loaders for Imgix, Cloudinary, and more! Learn more here.
```

---

# Image Optimization

<details open>
  <summary><b>Examples</b></summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/basic-image-optimization">Basic Image Optimization</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

> Since version **10.0.0**, Next.js provides an Image component that will automatically optimize the source image based on the browser. The optimization includes resizing the image based on the browser's viewport as well as selecting the best format, such as [WebP](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Media/Formats/Image_types), based on the browser's [`Accept`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Accept) header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since version **10.0.0**, Next.js provides an Image component to automatically optimize the source image. The optimization includes resizing the image based on the browser's viewport, as well as selecting the best format (such as [WebP](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Media/Formats/Image_types)) based on the browser's [`Accept`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Accept) header.
```

> The objective of the Image component is to improve performance of Next.js applications, with a particular focus on improving their Core Web Vitals scores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The objective of the Image component is to improve the performance of Next.js applications, with a particular focus on improving their [Core Web Vitals](https://web.dev/vitals/) scores.
```

Reviewer: Could also link to some other performance docs about web vitals

## Default Behavior

To add an image to your application, import the Image component on your [page](./pages).

```jsx
import Image from 'next/image'

function Home() {
  return (
    <>
      <h1>My Homepage</h1>

>       <Image src="/me.png" width={200} height={200} />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <Image src="/me.png" alt="me" width={200} height={200} />
```

      <p>Welcome to my homepage!</p>
    </>
  )
}

export default Home
```

## Configuration

> If you want to configure Image Optimization you can do so by using `images` in `next.config.js`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure Image Optimization by using the `images` key in `next.config.js`.
```

### Sizes

> You can specify which size widths you wish to allow using the `sizes` property. Since images will maintain aspect ratio using the `width` and `height` of the source image, there is no need to specify height, only the width. You can think of these as breakpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify a list of image widths to allow using the `sizes` property. Since images maintain their aspect ratio using the `width` and `height` attributes of the source image, there is no need to specify height in `next.config.js` – only the width. You can think of these as breakpoints.
```

```js
module.exports = {
  images: {
    sizes: [320, 420, 768, 1024, 1200],
  },
}
```

### Domains

> If you want to optimize images hosted on an external website, you would use an absolute url for the Image `src` and specify which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable image optimization for images hosted on an external website, use an absolute url for the Image `src` and specify which
```

`domains` are allowed to be optimized.

```js
module.exports = {
  images: {
    domains: ['example.com'],
  },
}
```

### Loader

If you want to use a cloud provider to optimize images instead of using the Next.js API, you can configure the loader and path prefix. This allows you to use relative urls for the Image `src` and automatically generate the correct absolute url for your provider.

```js
module.exports = {
  images: {
    loader: 'imgix',
    path: 'https://example.com/myaccount/',
  },
}
```

## FAQ

### Can I bring my own cloud provider?

> The following image optimization cloud providers are supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following Image Optimization cloud providers are supported:
```

- Imgix: `loader: 'imgix'`
- Cloudinary: `loader: 'cloudinary'`
- Akamai: `loader: 'akamai'`

> - Vercel: no configuration necesary

Reviewer 2: necessary

> - Vercel: no configuration necesary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Vercel: No configuration necessary
```

## Related

For more information on what to do next, we recommend the following sections:

> <div class="card">

Reviewer: Maybe data fetching here instead?
